So hi everyone today we have a special
guest on our channel we have Shalini
with us. So Shallini would you like to
introduce yourselves once? Uh hi hi
everyone. Hi Ashish. So I'm Shallini
currently in my fourth year. I'll be
graduating in 10 days and I am currently
interning at EPAM systems and it's been
4 months since I'm interning there as a
software engineer intern. So yeah that's
it.
Right. Right. Right. So like she
mentioned she has cracked EPAM and we'll
be getting to know her interview
experience, her placement journey, her
preparation journey and everything in
between. So Charini, would you like to
start us off with your interview
experience like what all happened? How
did it go? Yeah, so I actually had four
rounds of inter uh four rounds total. So
first round was the OA where I got uh
two coding questions and second section
was uh on the core section core computer
science fundamentals on OS oops and DBMS
and in the first uh uh section we I had
two coding questions based on link list
and arrays uh sliding window type
question and uh we I think we had an
optional question as well I don't
remember it well so I solved the first
two questions in the coding uh section
and in the uh core section I solved
almost every question. So after that uh
I think 200 people gave the exam and
maybe 70 people got 70 or 80 people got
shortlisted from that and after that we
had a group discussion round we had been
asked on the topic like quality testing
assurance and then uh from that uh again
it was a short um some people got
shortlisted from that um uh group
discussion round and then after that we
had a technical round and in the
technical round I have been asked with
coding questions. Again uh it was mainly
based on link lists and the graphs and
also
um it was mainly based on the resume on
my projects on my skills. So I had uh I
had participated in the JP Morgan's code
for good challenge. So he I mentioned it
in my resume. So he mainly asked about
what I did in that uh in that challenge.
So I mainly uh worked on the front end
part of um that uh in that challenge. So
he yeah so he asked about the JavaScript
fundamentals and the react fundamentals
what I did even my projects were based
on the monst. So he asked about the
React and the JavaScript fundamentals
and he asked me to code the uh coding
questions also in the JavaScript and the
coding questions were graph and link
list based right? So he asked me to code
it in the
JavaScript. Uh and then it was a short
listing round. Um after that uh we had a
HR round. It was about 20 to 25 minutes.
Yeah. She asked me the very bas basic
questions like strengths and weaknesses.
Where will you see in the five years all
these generalized questions? That's it.
Mhm. All right. To up first online
assessment and then the group
discussion, technical interview and then
HR interview, right? Yeah. And all
rounds were eliminator. Yeah. All rounds
were eliminator. Even in the HR round
some people got eliminated. No. But
rejected. All right.
The difficult
part difficult part was the O round. The
interviews were good. I mean if you have
the good knowledge you can explain it
well but the O round was the main
eliminating part because some people
solved the questions but they did not
get shortlisted. So maybe it was time
based also and accuracy based also.
And let's
say medium
medium medium medium hard not hard but
medium
lead and technical interview like you
mentioned
graphic question was uh graph question
was standard graph questions not the
yeah
And those were a bit
hard. Yeah. Right. Right. We can say DA
important part of clearing the
interviews. How did you prepare
DSA? Yeah. So for
DSA geeks for geeks standard
questions topics like easy, medium, hard
and geeks for geeks array stacks, link
lists, cues, graphs. I went till graphs
um trees and
graphs and
um A to Z sheet solve but not completely
hard questions I solved.
hard questions I needed them to
understand the concept so I solved the
hard as well. So yeah that's it and for
the projects
manp it was mainly based on the
manag I made some self projects for the
practice and again in the third year I
revised those concepts and
project DSA was from geeks for geeks and
driver sheet and
[Music]
rather than making side project it's
better you go on a hackathon and then do
there right all right so unique systems
that they have a GD round companies
details. So
round quality assurance and testing. So
I guess 50 10 people were there in each
uh group. So okay uh the interviewer was
focusing on each and every individual.
So he was asking about each quality um
uh quality concepts, testing concepts.
Actually we didn't have the much
knowledge on those topics because we
didn't come from that background.
So weird because usually I've seen to
non- tech topics. First time I've seen
this quality assurance or topic. It's
new to me also. Huh. Yeah. But still we
had studied some parts like blackbox
testing white box
testing then we elaborated on that. So
he was uh seeing key uh each individual
was participating or not if he was uh
actually coming out if he's speaking or
not even if he doesn't know is he
speaking or so he was focusing on that.
That's it. So it was more of a test of
your communication and how well you're
able to communicate in a group ha rather
than the knowledge you hold. Right.
Yeah. Because if it was a generalized
topic then we can uh expand what we know
I mean we can cover many topics but
since it was a topic which we did didn't
know at least we need to
speak
correct right right all right
so explain interview process and you
know your preparation also so on a final
note to all of the people who are
watching this video let's say they also
want to crack a like EPAM what advice
would you like to give them? So for the
advice I would say start early start
early DSA mainly the DSA because when we
go when you go to second second year or
third year second year
internship goes till graphs also. So you
should start uh from the first year
onwards. Exploration is really important
but along with exploring every other
thing you should start DSA early and
once you I mean um are comfortable with
DSA start exploring other texts like
monster machine learning AI lo etc and
make the project self projects not only
watch the videos don't watch the videos
for I mean that watching loop first
so yeah so practice it and you'll
explore it on your own because interest
until we don't start we don't know how
to I mean until we don't start start
making projects and then dive into the
good projects like mini projects or any
other projects with your friends yeah
and even in DSA uh you uh when you solve
the questions so um explore the answers
of others in the discussion sections
solution we get constrainted to that
only single solution if we focus on
that new
concept so that advice I would like to
give right right and that's some
wonderful advice right there okay so I
think that covers pretty much everything
about Charlini's journey to crack me pam
and if anyone of you still have any
doubt I'll give her LinkedIn in the
description you guys can follow her from
there can connect with her from there.
So yeah, thanks a lot Shalini for coming
on the channel and sharing your journey.
I hope this helps a lot of students.
Yeah, thank you. Thank you Ashish. Thank
you everyone.